# The-Speaking-Portal-Project
CONTEXT: Kukarella text to speech converter gives you easy access to 750 AI voices across 130 languages and accents. Kukarella users can create a professional voiceover in real-time with multiple languages.  Imagine that you are listening to a blog post read by an AI voice. You hear the voice, but you also want to see the person who is reading this text, sort of a personal assistant. Today, there are few solutions which can be used to enable this. You can use pre-recorded videos and sync them with the text; or you can use AI to animate photographs of people or hand-drawn images. We would prefer the latter one because it gives more freedom to a user. 

DESCRIPTION:  The team will build a web app compatible with Kukarella’s tech stack. The output of the web app should be something that is embeddable into a website, ideally an image or video. The input should ideally be via a web HTTP request or as a JS API. Kukarella's code base is written in TypeScript, with a React front-end and a NodeJS Express backend API server; as long as the input is accessible from our backend in some way, it is acceptable. Ideally, for a user, the process of creating a speaking portrait would look something like this: The user enters the text he wants to listen to; uploads a photo of a person or illustration of a character who will read the text; selects a language and voice; presses the "speak" button; and then he can watch and listen to the resulting animated image with a voice over.  Tech for illustrations (Links to an external site.), It's source code (Links to an external site.), Tech for photosLinks to an external site. used in my heritage.com
