# Client Meeting Minutes

- **Start Time:** 4:00 PM
- **End Time:** 5:00 PM
- **Location:** Zoom
- **Date:** October 14, 2022

## Attendance

- Client:
  - Nazim Ragimov (CEO)
  - Erik (developer)

- Team A:
  - Edouard Eltherington
  - Veronica Jack
  - Logan Parker

***Attendence Comments***

- Matt Kuelker is writing a midterm, so he was unable to attend
- Students from other teams present as well
  - Team B only had 1 group member present
  - Team C was missing 1 member

## Agenda Items

- Requirements Confirmation
- Access Discussion
- Milestone Discussion

### TEAM A

- We explained that our approach will work for user-selected avatars, but it unfortunately won't work for user-uploaded
 images. Nazim and Erik said that this is acceptable.

- We went over our DFDs (level 0 and level 1) to ensure that the requirements we understood are correct, and both Nazim
and Erik confirmed that we are on the right track.

- We asked about access to making requests from the Kukarella system to receive the audio file, language, and user text.
There currently is no Kukarella API for us to call, so we will need some other way to access the audio, language, and text.

- We asked if there are currently any 2D assets that we can have access to. The image assets that they currently have are
animation files from their other app, so they're not still images and they do NOT have mouth images at this time

- We will be requesting the following by (date TBD at next team meeting)
  - Instructions for how to receive the audio file, language, and user text (Kukarella API)
  - Instructions for how to access Kukarella's image asset database
  - Please make this Kukarella account premium: `team.a.kukarella.capstone@gmail.com`
  - 2D assets for the avatars they want us to use (heads, faces, various mouths, eyebrows, etc.)

- Team A deliverable ideas (Final results TBD at next team meeting)
  - create phoneme file from audio
  - return an MP4
  - ensure it is setup as an API (can make calls to our program)
  - ensure the MP4 has mouth movements changing
  - make the animation more realistic

### TEAM B

- Team B had the same questions as Team A

### TEAM C

- They asked if the client has or will have a database with the image assets. Erik said that they will be storing the
images on their end, so we will need to call on their DB for the images once they've been created.

- They asked if output persists on Kukarella's end. Erik said that no cleanup system in place; stored permanently on
their end.

- They proposed alternate milestones for their group:
  1. Basic phoneme detection + usage of Kukarella TTS
  2. Generate a speaking portrait with audio
  3. API endpoint integration with Kukarella allowing use of preset avatars
  4. User-friendly method of uploading custom avatars

## To-do List

1. Send Nazim a complied list (all groups together) of what we all need access to and the deadline (see notes under Team A)

2. Go into the Google Sheets file that Nazim shared and request edit access (Veronica received edit access immediately after the meeting)

3. Once you have edit access, adjust the milestone calendar to reflect each team's milestones.

4. Reschedule the client meeting the week of October 28th because Erik (developer) will not be available.
