# TEAM MEETING 

## Schedule 
1. **15:30** Find chairs, clean EME 1252. (Few keen people)
2. **16:00** Liaisons meet client at fountain statue in courtyard. Rest of the group assembles in EME 1252
3. **16:10** Commence Meeting. All PMs and Liaisons should be present. 

## OVERVIEW

**CONTEXT:** Kukarella text to speech converter gives you easy access to 750 AI voices across 130 languages and accents. Kukarella users can create a professional voiceover in real-time with multiple languages. Imagine that you are listening to a blog post read by an AI voice. You hear the voice, but you also want to see the person who is reading this text, sort of a personal assistant. Today, there are few solutions which can be used to enable this. You can use pre-recorded videos and sync them with the text; or you can use AI to animate photographs of people or hand-drawn images. We would prefer the latter one because it gives more freedom to a user.

**DESCRIPTION:** The team will build a web app compatible with Kukarella’s tech stack. The output of the web app should be something that is embeddable into a website, ideally an image or video. The input should ideally be via a web HTTP request or as a JS API. Kukarella's code base is written in TypeScript, with a React front-end and a NodeJS Express backend API server; as long as the input is accessible from our backend in some way, it is acceptable. Ideally, for a user, the process of creating a speaking portrait would look something like this: The user enters the text he wants to listen to; uploads a photo of a person or illustration of a character who will read the text; selects a language and voice; presses the "speak" button; and then he can watch and listen to the resulting animated image with a voice over. Tech for illustrations (Links to an external site.), It's source code (Links to an external site.), Tech for photosLinks to an external site. used in my heritage.com

## Personal Questions 
- Tell us about you and your company (goals and values)
- Have you been a part of a capstone project or anything similar before?
- What is your preferred method of communication?
- How often would you like us to communicate with you outside of our meetings?
- Are there other people on your team that you’d like us to work with?
- What is the purpose of this project?
- What expectations do you have in regard to working with us?

## Development Questions

### Project information in list form: 
1. User enters text they want to listen to
2. User uploads a photo of a person or illustration of a character who will read the text
3. User selects a language
4. User selects a voice
5. User presses the “speak” button
6. User is presented with an embedded video to watch and listen to the resulting animated image with a voice over

*Is this how you see this project being used?*
*Would you like to make any changes to this process?*

## Additional Development Questions
- What’s the project deadline?
- What are the key milestones and important dates?
- What criteria will you use to determine project success?
- Are there any obstacles or barriers that we should be aware of?


## Requirements Questions 
*“The team will build a web app compatible with Kukarella’s tech stack”*
- Will the web app be a web page, or part of an already existing web page?
- Does it need to be both computer and mobile-friendly? or will this be mainly used on the computer and mobile-friendly styling is not a priority?
- Are there any company-specific fonts, colours, graphics, or styles that we should use?
- How much access do we have to the tech stack? Are there tools we can't use?

*“the user enters the text he wants to listen to”*
- How much text is expected (one-line text entry or multi-line text entry)?
- Can the user upload a file? (i.e., .txt or .docx)
- What is the file limit or char limit? 

*“uploads a photo of a person or illustration of a character who will read the text”*
 - Is there any image file type that will not be accepted? Is this tool supposed to be .SVG compatible?
 - Is there a file size limitation?
 - Is it only one photo, or are multiple photos accepted?

*“selects a language and voice”*
- Will the list of languages be provided?
- We're assuming voices will be provided. How many options are there? 
- For the user interface, should this be a dropdown or an "interactive" dropdown where you can start typing the word and results show up that the user can click on
- Should we provide a preview option for the voices and/or languages?

*“The input should ideally be via a web HTTP request or as a JS API.”*
- Do you have a preference?
- Which would be faster? (This is possibly a silly question)

*"The output of the web app should be something that is embeddable into a website, ideally an image or video.”*
- Can the user download the resulting video?
- Does the app provide the user with an embeddable link?






